These are 23 ways to use AI that you've
probably never heard of because most
people are only using a fraction of AI's
full potential. I've been in the AI
trenches for the past 3 years running
multiple AI companies and I can tell you
most people are only scratching the
surface of what's possible. And in this
video, I'll show you 23 new ways that
you can use AI to turn on easy mode in
all aspects of your life. Number one,
master prompts for your whole life.
Essentially, we want to build a single
life prompt, a collection of all your
values, your goals, your weaknesses,
your principles, your life, every
detail. That way, every time you ask AI
a question, it answers it through your
lens. So, here's how it works. You
actually say to Chad GBT, "Help me
create a master prompt for my life and
ask me the questions to give you the
context about my life." And it'll ask
you the questions. You answer it and
save it as a PDF. Now, anytime you ask
AI or any other AI, upload the PDF
before you ask her a question so it has
all the context. That's your master
prompt. Number two, hidden truth mirror.
AI's number one opportunity for most
people is to use it to uncover blind
spots and traits that you don't even
realize about yourself. Here's how we do
this. I want you to open up your AI of
choice. I like Chad GBT. Feed it your
journals. Feed it your blog post. Feed
it your content. Feed it all the
information, any patterns for context,
but ask it. Tell me something unique
about me that I don't see yet. The truth
is, if you've been using Tragic BT or
other a lot, it'll already know this
stuff. Number three, write books that
don't even exist yet. There's definitely
people you admire that have talked about
a topic that have never written a book
on that topic. For example, Sarah
Blakeley on parenting or Mr. beast on
how to scale a media company. So what
you do is you prompt a Chad GBT to train
itself on interviews, podcasts, any
content they've ever written. Then
prompt it to create a book using best
practices about book outlines to write
the chapters, the frameworks, and the
checklist. Pull out all the quotes.
Don't hallucinate. And it will create
that book for you. If you actually want
the prompt that I wrote to generate
books on any topic from any person I
follow, click the link below and
download it for yourself. Number four,
decision-making journal. Essentially,
you use AI to track the choices and
review them later to improve your
decision-m based on the results they got
you. Here's how you do it. Log all your
major decisions into Chad GPT with an
expected outcome, whether personal or in
your work and ask it to challenge you on
your thinking. See, most AIs are
designed to be very agreeable and unless
you tell it to actually challenge you,
it won't. So, make sure that you include
that in your prompt. Number five, the AI
camcorder method. You can take a messy
recording of you doing something that
you want to create a repeatable
checklist from or standard operating
procedure or a playbook and you can get
AI to do that for you. All you have to
do is paste the raw notes or transcript
from any video of you doing something
and ask GPT for a one-page checklist
with all the pitfalls in the reminders
for whatever you gave it. It will create
a better system documentation for
repeating a task or a project in your
life that you can give to somebody else
to do for you. Number six, break down
goals to actions. Most people have a
vision for their life, but they don't
have a plan because they've never done
it before. You can use AI to actually
help you build a plan. Here's how we do
it. Tell Chad GBT what your goal is and
ask it to design a 30, 60, 90day road
map with action items and it'll build
that for you. Number seven, visualize
your dreams. Instead of spending all
your time finding images to download and
spend hours in Photoshop, you can have
AI create a vision board that has
everything that you want to vision for
your life front and center in that
image. So, here's how we do it. We take
our goals from the last step and ask AI
to generate images of what your life
would look like once you achieve them
and then look at it every day. Be in the
energy of achievement. Number eight,
automate savings and investment plan.
Essentially, you want to automate your
wealth building when your motivation
isn't there and you get AI to give you
the plan. So, ask Chad GBT to draft a
pay yourself first schedule and bank
rolls for emergency fund, debt,
investments for your specific situation.
Most people hire these wealth folks that
really don't even have any money to
build a plan for you. AI will give you
that with more clarity, specificity,
specific for your situation. Number
nine, tax deduction finder. Right off
the bat, talk to a professional. But
having AI catch write offs,
opportunities for credit, and grants
where most people miss, is a huge
opportunity to get more money back.
Upload all your expenses. Ask Chad GBT
based on your situation. Flag likely
deductions and build a monthly tracking
checklist. And also ask it, "What are
the grants that might be available that
I might qualify for?" Number 10,
personal board of adviserss. One of the
most powerful strategies to progress
your life is the concept of a mastermind
or a board of mentors. The problem is a
lot of these people aren't available. AI
can help you build that without them
being in your life even if they're not
alive. The first part is you can
actually ask Chad GPT to tell you who's
achieved the goals that you want to
achieve. So they help you build that
list. Then you can tell it to act like
them in a custom GPT to answer any
question you might have about sequencing
or decisions or structure based on the
AI's best guess for how those people
would have made those decisions in their
life. Number 11, future selflet letters
that rewire you. Essentially, you stay
motivated by receiving letters from your
future self. What you want to do is you
want to feed Chad GBT your goals and
your fears. Then ask it to draft letters
delivered to you in 30, 90, or 365 days.
You can actually send them every month
if you want, but it's going to write the
letters that's going to anticipate how
you might be feeling based on where
you're at in your life around your
goals, and it's going to just keep you
motivated. Number 12, contextaware
memory vault. Essentially, you want to
let AI become your second brain. To do
that, we want to create project folders
and dump everything into it. You could
have a folder where you upload
everything, your bank accounts, your
current investments. You can even
reference books that you think are kind
of aligned with your values of how you
want to live your life. You know, Die
with Zero is a great book. And then ask
it to help you make decisions based on
the context of your life. That way, it
acts as a second brain and it can recall
relevant insights that it made based on
what you shared with it. So, when you
want to make new decisions, it has all
the information about your current life.
You give it the new information. And
then you say, "Okay, now I've got a kid.
How should I think about my investments
differently?" And it'll give you an
answer. I use project folders for
everything. My investments in my life,
the individual companies that I run. I
was buying a new piece of real estate in
Cabo. I had that as a project folder. It
is the coolest thing to have my second
brain be in AI. Number 13, just in time
learning paths. The ability to learn is
a master skill. Too many people get busy
learning stuff that doesn't actually
help them. So, let's say you want to
have Chad GPT teach you how to use AI.
You can ask it to map out 20% of the
lessons to learn how to use AI that
matters most and skip all the fluff.
That way, it's just a punchy learning
path that's just in time based on what
you're dealing with right now. Number
14, meeting assistant. I wrote a book
called Buy Back Your Time. So, anything
that talks about assistance, I get
really excited. But what I do is I use
AI to turn all my meetings into assets,
not just a huge time sync. So for
example, you want to give the call
recordings that you have, ideally you're
doing them over Zoom, to AI and then
have it pull all the notes and tell you
what do you need to do based on that
conversation. This might sound crazy,
but I have a guy on my team optin who
wears a AI pin. It's a necklace that's
always on. It's by Limitless. And
essentially that necklace is doing this
in real time for him all the time. He's
in a meeting talking to somebody. It
does a summary of the meeting and tell
him what he needs to add to his to-do
list. All real time, always on. A little
advanced, but let's just start with
having you get the recordings of your
calls and transcribe them through AI.
Number 15, risk assessment. Essentially,
you want to have AI assess the risk of
your business or life decisions. I do
this all the time. I like to use the
voice app and I'll go on a walk and I
will talk through my earbuds to AI about
my life. I will give it all the context
and the situation. The other day I had a
major business restructuring decision
and I gave it all the people, the
business size, the team members and it
gave me back the decision that I was
scared to make. I said chat GPT sell me
on it and it said boom boom boom here
are the pros and cons. That was the
decision and the whole point is to use
it to help you mitigate the risk. So
then after it gives you ideas, then you
can ask it. Tell me all the risk in that
decision so I can understand what
decision I'm actually making. Number 16,
message sharpener. I have two people in
my life. I have one person who doesn't
like to talk. I have another person who
talks too much. I taught them how to
create custom GPTs that they can talk to
for it to either add stuff to the person
doesn't ask or ask them questions or to
trim it for the one that just seems
incredibly verbose. Here's how you set
it up. You open up GPT and you hit the
little microphone button and you talk to
it. Hello, are you there?
>> Hey there. Yep, I'm here and ready to
chat. Let me know what you need.
>> All right. I need you to take what I'm
about to say, which is going to be a
very direct and angry thing, and then
take exactly what I said, but resay it
in a way that's kinder, softer, and more
still direct, but not as harsh. Can you
do that?
>> Absolutely, I can do that. Just go ahead
and tell me what you want to say and
I'll reshape it into something a bit
gentler for you.
>> Yo, bro, why didn't you send me the 2026
goals yet?
>> Got it. So, let's soften that up a bit.
You could say something like, "Hey, I
noticed I haven't received the 2026
goals yet. Could you please send them
over when you get a chance?" Still
direct, but definitely a bit kinder.
>> Let's go. I love it. Thank you. It may
sound funny, but I know a lot of people
that should be using that. Number 17,
Travel Architect. Using AI to help you
plan a trip is a master tool and you not
feeling overwhelmed or confused. What
you can do is give it the date, your
budget, your preferences, and then ask
it for a five-stop plan with hidden gems
and must sees. We're currently on a
9-month world schooling trip, going to
like 15 countries and 40 plus cities,
and we've been using AI to help us
design, follow weather, find games to go
to, ensure the kids are always busy. All
designed with AI. There is zero chance
that we could have got to the level of
trip planning without AI for our world
schooling adventures. And if you use
agent mode, all you have to do is give
it your card. Number 18, an emotional
debrief partner. Using AI to turn bad
days or bad moments into lessons is one
of the number one use cases for AI.
Getting clarity around a situation, it's
so powerful. The easiest way to do that
is go into voice mode and just vent and
give it everything. Here's the
situation. Here's what they said. Here's
how I felt. And then you can ask Chad
GBT to say sort through the noise in the
signal and give me one lesson, one
silver lining that I might be able to
take on to shift my perspective. And it
will give you that micro shift. Here's
why that's powerful. If you stay in your
head, you're in trouble. If you get
things out to talk with somebody, it
helps. And look, it doesn't replace a
therapist, but it also is something
that's available to you right now in the
moment. Don't need to schedule. It
doesn't cost anything. It honestly has
access to all the best therapy
strategies to at least give you some
direction better than just sitting there
by yourself trying to think about it in
your head. Number 19, content creator.
This is not what you think. I actually
use it to turn memories into content
ideas so that I can share those with the
world. The way you do this is you ask
Chia GBT to ask you all the meaningful
stories, moments, transformations you've
ever had in your life and then you just
answer it and then say, "Please reformat
these into a PSL framework, essentially
a point story lesson." What it does is
it takes all the stories that you've
just like kind of rambled about and
answered questions about this meaningful
moment and then it rewrites it in a
structure that you can then create
content with that actually hits hard.
Number 20, the contract translator. One
of the ultimate use cases for AI is
legal. Simplifying confusing contracts
and financial docs is a must, but
there's a way to do it that most people
don't think about. What I do is I have
my assistant before she talks to my
lawyer upload every contract that comes
into my life up to Chad GPT and then I
ask it to rewrite the contract in plain
English highlighting any of the riskiest
terms that I need to know about. And
then I ask it to tell me the three
questions I should be asking about that
contract. I can take my assistant who
has no legal background and turn her
into a parallegal next level ninja to
prep all the contracts where I just have
all my email drafts having the answers
to those questions. Number 21, the
contract creator. This one's powerful
cuz it will save you hundreds of dollars
in legal fees instead of hiring a
lawyer. It may sound simple, but let me
give you the specific prompts.
Essentially, you want to explain your
situation in plain English, but also
give it all the details about the city
you live in, the country you live in,
the situation, and then ask it to ask
you any other questions it would need to
draft a worldclass professional contract
as a legal expert. Once it asks you
those questions, you answer it, and you
hit enter, it will draft you something
that most lawyers do not know how to do.
And again, you can also use it to
evaluate pros and cons to see if it's
too one-sided for you, because it
probably will be, so that you can find
something that's more fair. Number 22,
tough conversation roleplay.
Essentially, using AI to have a sparring
partner to roleplay through tough
conversations you know you should be
having, but you might be avoiding. This
could be maybe a parent you need to talk
to. This could be your partner where you
might have to have a really important
conversation. And this could be somebody
on your team that you have to give
feedback to. It might even be going to
the bank and asking for a loan and
you're really scared to do that, right?
So, what I like to do is ask Chad GBT to
act like a certain persona. Let's say
your boss, your manager, your employee,
and then have it roleplay as that person
with you. Then you can walk through the
situation where you're explaining your
perspective and kind of what they made
you feel and have it prompt back and
forth to have that conversation before
you ever have it. Using it to roleplay
will make you feel way more comfortable
when it comes to actually having the
conversation. Number 23, the eulogy
writer. A eulogy is an incredible way to
have alignment with your life and
actually see how you might be remembered
through other people's eyes. A while
ago, when I was 23, my first business
coach, his name was Bob, asked me to do
something on our first call that had the
biggest impact on my life more than
anything else he taught me. And it was
to sit down and write my eulogy. So,
here's how you do it. Ask Chad GPT to
draft your eulogy based on your
journals, your values, any other
context, your master prompt that you
might have gave it. Have it focus on
what would my family members say, what
would my friends say, people I've worked
with, and people in my community. And
having those four areas, that's what Bob
did for me, allowed me to write and
refine how I wanted those people to talk
about who I was. And that gave me
clarity for how I was building my life.
Now, if you want my internal system
prompts for how I talk to AI in the
code, just click the link below in the
description and grab yourself a copy.
There's a lot that we just covered, and
all I want you to do is pick one. Pick
one that you think, if I started doing
that in my life, I think that'd be
pretty great. Pick that one, leave a
comment below, and let me know which
one's your favorite. Now, if you want to
learn the three things that will make
you future proof in the AI era, click
here and I'll see you on the other